<!-- 

Below authored script looked good enough to explore a personal project. I have forked the repository with the following details of origination.
name: ai-ml-image-processing-script (Public)
forked from ifeanyiro9/ai-ml-image-processing-script
Today's date: 5-2-2026
Origin URL: https://github.com/ifeanyiro9/ai-ml-image-processing-script
URL: https://github.com/robhowe-A/ai-ml-image-processing-script

Running steps (codespaces)
#python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
#python -m pip install imageai
#python ai-image-processsing.py, #it is not a python module

-->

# Image Prediction AI/ML Project with ImageAI

## Introduction

Welcome to the Image Prediction AI/ML project using ImageAI! In this project, we'll explore the exciting world of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) by building a simple image prediction model.

Have you ever wondered how computers can "see" and identify objects in images? This project will take you on a journey into the realms of AI and ML, unraveling their basic concepts and showing you how to create your own image prediction model.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following:

- **Python**: Basic knowledge of Python programming and Python 3 or later verison installed
- **ImageAI Dependencies**: Install dependencies from the requirments.txt and requirements_gpu.txt docs using `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
- **ImageAI Library**: Install it using `pip install imageai`.
- **Images**: Gather the images you want to perform predictions on.

### Objectives

By the end of this project, you will:

- Understand the basics of AI and ML.
- Use ImageAI's pre-trained models for image prediction.
- Interpret predictions and probabilities generated by the model.

## Usage

Follow these simple steps to create your image prediction model:

#### Step 1: Import necessary libraries and set the execution path

#### Step 2: Choose your desired algorithm and load the model

Choose one of the available algorithms and load the corresponding model

#### Step 3: Perform image prediction

Replace "house.jpg" with the path to the image you want to predict, and run the prediction code

Read more about ImageAI here - https://github.com/OlafenwaMoses/ImageAI
